# Runner for Prolog and {log} test suits

## Introduction

This folder contains tests suits and runners designed to validate the correctness of the implementation. The provided scripts facilitate the compilation and execution of various test cases, ensuring the robustness of the codebase.

## Contents

### Compilation Scripts

Compilation scripts are triggering inside **RUN_...** scripts. They should be used only if you want to run some tests manually. Don't forget to use `clean.sh` in corresponded folder.

- `compile_c_prolog.sh`
  - Compiles all necessary files to `prolog_files` folder. This prepares `prolog_files` folder to run tests.
- `compile_c_setlog.sh <linprog/clpq>`
  - Compiles all necessary files to `setlog_files` folder. The parameter defines which version of **{log}** (setlog) to use. By default it is `linprog`.
  
### Test Runner Scripts

- `RUN_PROLOG_test.sh <test-group> <ext>`
  Executes **Prolog** tests based on the specified test group and log extension. The `<test-group>` parameter refers to one of the existing test groups:
  - **clp**
  - **card**
  - **intervals**
  - **abz18**

  You can add new test groups by creating a folder named `test_<test-group>` inside the `test_cases` directory. The `<ext>` parameter specifies logs file extension. This script compiles tests using `./compile_c_prolog.sh`, runs prolog tests (starting must be with `t0`). You can see results of the execution inside `logs` folder.

- `RUN_SETLOG_test.sh <test-group> <ext>`  
  Similar to `RUN_PROLOG_test.sh`, but this script is used for running **{log}** (setlog) tests (tests must be starting with `e`).

### Directories content

[**NOTE:**](#note) Scripts inside `prolog_file` and `setlog_files` are parts of others scripts, please use them only if you want to simulate the process manually. ?If you want to run a single test, a better way is to create a test suit with this single test and run it.?

#### `test_cases`

- `test_*`
  - A folder containing test cases and a files with expected answers. [Click](./test_cases/README.md) to see how to create your own test suits.

##### `prolog_files`

- `run.sh <ext> <linprog/clpq>`
  - Runs a single test case that was generated by `run_all.sh`.
- `run_all.sh <ext> <linprog/clpq>`
  - Runs all test cases that are started with `{ext}-t0` and ended with `.pl`.
- `clean.sh <ext>`
  - Clean all files that were produced by `run_all.sh`. If you want to clean `t0*.pl` testcases you can omit `<ext>`

##### `setlog_files`

- `run.sh <ext>`
  - Runs a single test case that was generated by `run_all.sh`.
- `run_all.sh <ext>`
  - Runs all test cases that are started with `{ext}-e` and ended with `.pl`.
- `clean.sh <ext>`
  - Clean all files that were produced by `run_all.sh`. If you want to clean `e*.pl` testcases you can omit `<ext>`

## Usage

1. **Run tests** using \
`RUN_PROLOG_test.sh <test-group> <ext>` or \
`RUN_SETLOG_test.sh <test-group> <ext>` with the appropriate parameters. Example:

   ```bash
   ./RUN_PROLOG_test.sh clp log
   ```

   Replace `<test-group>` with the desired test group and `<ext>` with your preferred log file extension.

---

### **_NOTE:_**

You may add new test groups by creating a directory `test_<test-group>` under `test_cases`. [See](./test_cases/README.md) more about creation a test suit.
